I know I say very often that this is going to be a really exciting video but this video is really going
to be very exciting.
I'm going to show you how to create contours from meshes meshes are really important in graphics and
also in data visualization and image processing multivariate mathematics and so on.
So I'm going to introduce you to meshes and creating and working with meshes and in the exercise for
this video you're going to see the formula for a two dimensional Gaussian which is also sometimes called
a image smoothing kernel or sometimes a blurring kernel.
Okay.
So let's switch to Python and dive right in.
In this video we are going to be using num pi and matte plot lib.
So I've already written the code to import those modules here.
OK.
So I'm just going to start by writing a little bit of code and then I will explain what I'm doing in
a moment.
So x y and notes I'm using capital letters here instead of lowercase letters typically lowercase letters
are used for vectors or variables and uppercase letters are often used to indicate matrices.
So I'm gonna be creating some matrices using the function mesh grid and I will call this so I'm gonna
provide two inputs range 0 10 and range 0 15.
Okay so let's run this and now I'm just going to let's just see what X looks like.
Okay.
So this is pretty interesting.
I inputted a range that goes from 0 to 9 and a range of numbers that goes from 0 to 14.
And what I got out in this matrix S is a column of zeros a column of ones and so on up to a column of
nines.
And let's see how many columns there are.
How many rows there are.
Sorry.
One two three four five six seven eight nine ten eleven twelve thirteen fourteen fifteen.
Okay so that's pretty interesting.
Let's see what y looks like.
Actually maybe I'll print them out side by side like this.
So here we see y.
And this actually looks a bit different so now instead of all the numbers going in columns the numbers
are the same in the rows and this goes from 0 up to 14.
So it's kind of a complement of X here.
So to get a better sense of what these matrices are I'm going to show them in in a couple of plots in
an image.
So let's say P L T.
I'm gonna create subplots and the subplot geometry is going to be one row and two columns.
And I want to start by plotting in the first subplot.
And what do I want to plot.
Well this is a matrix and I've already taught you how to view image matrices how to visualize matrices
as images using P.L. t that I am shown.
So let's see what that looks like.
All right.
So here it looks like a bunch of columns.
You don't see the individual rows.
So I'm actually going to start using a different function here.
I'm going to use a function called P color mesh and let's see what this looks like.
Mm hmm.
So actually that looks basically the same.
So in fact when you only provide one input to p color mesh it's really the same as I am show.
However P color mesh does have some additional options that are not available and I am show for example
I'm going to right edge color equals K all right.
So this is pretty interesting.
Now we can see each individual block here of the matrix.
Now I think these lines are a little bit thick for my taste.
I would like them to be a bit thinner.
So how about line with equals point one.
Okay.
I think that looks nicer.
So this is matrix X and now what I want to do is copy and paste for matrix y and let's see I think everything
else is fine I'll say P L T does show at the bottom.
Okay so here you see matrix X.
And here you see matrix y.
So you see that these two matrices are the same size but they have numbers that increase from.
In this case and X from zero to 10.
And here it increases from zero to 14.
Or this goes to nine sorry I said 10.
Who cares about this.
This doesn't even look that nice.
What can we do with these matrices.
Well what we can do with these matrices is use them as a grid to compute functions on.
So so far in the course when we've been creating functions it's been something like you know X equals
num pi it Lynn space and we might set the X range to go from let's say like minus two to plus two in
20 steps and then we define f of x equals whatevers and let's say it's the cosine of x.
So if you are creating a function of one variable then this is the way to do it and you end up with
just a single stream of numbers.
But if you're creating a two dimensional function then you don't just need a single line to evaluate
the function on you need a grid to evaluate the function on.
So for a one dimensional function a unique variable function you need a 1 vector of points and for a
multivariate function a function of two variables you need to have two dimensions of numbers.
So here you go.
That's where you got the X and the Y from.
Okay.
So that was maybe a little bit abstract let me make this more concrete.
So I want to do is create a function maybe I'll call this f x y.
It's gonna be a function of x and y and it's going to be cosine of X plus num pi dot sign of y.
Okay.
And then we can say P.L. t that I am so f x y and then peel D that show.
So let's see what this looks like.
All right.
So you can see this kind of interesting you can see what looks like these repeating circles.
And so what's happening here is that we have a cosine going across the rows this way and a sine going
across the columns down this way.
Now this I don't know this looks too blocky and an old school.
This looks like some cloth pattern from the 1960s that you would find in your grandmother's tablecloth
or something.
I want to make this a little bit smoother.
So what I'm going to do is set up the meshes.
So these are called meshes slightly differently from how I did here.
So I'm going to specify that I want X to be Lynn space numbers from how about minus pi to 2 pi.
And let's go for 40 steps and then Y is going to be known spider Lynn space and let's set this to now
x and y don't need to be the same.
They don't need to have the same ranges.
So let's set this to be 0 2 for pi.
And how about this one goes in seventy two steps.
OK.
So now I need to recreate the meshes so X comma Y equals MP dot mesh grid little X and little y.
So notice that these are vectors this is vector x because it's just a one dimensional stream of numbers.
And this is matrix X..
Okay so then these X and Y will overwrite what I defined up above.
Okay.
So now this is looking a lot nicer.
So I hope this is starting to make sense.
The idea the principle is that we create a grid of numbers instead of a list of numbers and then we
evaluate the function on this grid of numbers instead of on a list of single numbers and then we can
show that with an image or if you like how this looks here you can also use P color mesh and I guess
I should say so.
Let me say one more thing which is that p color mesh is sometimes a good idea to use but only if you
don't have too high of a resolution.
So for example if we show P color mash here.
Now I don't think this looks good.
And the reason is that there's just too many of these individual blocks so you get these black lines
all over the place it's kind of hard to see the original image the exercise for this video is basically
to produce a plot that looks like this using the techniques that I already showed you.
This is called a two dimensional Galaxy and is formerly a two dimensional Gaussian.
It's also sometimes called an image smoothing kernel or a blurring kernel.
You probably know that a one dimensional Gaussian is like a bell curve.
It's something that starts at zero.
It smoothly goes up to 1 and then it goes down to zero.
Or at least very very close to zero.
This is the 2 dimensional version of a galaxy and so you can see it comes up to 1 in the center and
then it kind of smoothly trails off to zero as it gets further away from the center.
So it's kind of like this this blurring image.
Now if you want a little bit of an extra challenge you can pause the video here and figure out everything
you need to produce this plot.
You can look up the formula for 2D calcium.
You have to take a few moments to figure out what are the parameters that I used in this function in
particular the x axis range the y axis range and the key parameter of a galaxy in which is the standard
deviation or the smoothing.
Okay.
So if you don't want any hints then now is your last opportunity to pause the video.
I'm not going to give a hint which is the formula that I use.
Okay so here is the formula we say matrix Z.
So that's this thing you have to make an image of equals E to the minus and then X squared plus Y squared
divided by S.
So s is the key parameter that defines the width of this Gaussian s basically defines how steep this
blur trails off to zero.
Okay.
I'm still not going to tell you exactly which parameter that I selected for S or the ranges that I used
for x and y.
So there's still something for you to figure out but at least you know how to start by implementing
this formula.
All right.
So good luck.
Now you can switch to Python and now I'm going to switch to Python.
All right so I used a range for both X and Y.
That is linearly spaced numbers so Lynn space from minus two to plus two and I went in one hundred steps
and then I also specified the s parameter the standard deviation to be two and I will show you in a
moment.
What happens when you change this parameter.
Okay so now we need our function.
I'll call this Gauss to D and that equals num Pi the E XP.
So this is the E to the.
And then everything inside the parentheses is what goes into the exponent.
So that was minus X squared plus Y squared squared.
And then all of that is divided by s all right.
So then we do P L T that I m show and peel t the show and let's see how this looks.
Huh.
I got an error right.
So I need to actually input this twice.
So in fact this probably the smarter way to do this is to say little X equals Lynn space from minus
two to plus two.
And then I can write X comma X
this is a really stupid mistake.
Okay gals too deep.
I was so excited to see this plot that I couldn't even wait to write out all the inputs.
Anyway then the last thing that I did was plot axis off.
Okay so these are the exact parameters that I used for the image in the slide and it's pretty interesting
to change these parameters and see what happens.
So for one thing we can specify s to be for example point two and now the Gaussian gets much smaller
and let's see what happens if I said it to be how about 8 instead of two.
And now it's much wider so it decays quite a bit more slowly.
So about 1 I'll set this to 1.
That's also a pretty nice looking Gaussian and then I also encourage you to play around with these boundaries
here.
For example if this goes from minus 4 to 2 then this ends up being off center.
This is no longer in the middle of the plot.
Now when I specify this just with one variable X it's not actually possible to get the Gaussian shifted
on one axis but not on the other axis.
So for example you know it's not possible for me to get this Gaussian to be centered here.
It can only be centered on the diagonals or in the center.
So if you like a little bit of an extra challenge is to figure out how to modify this code to be able
to independently move the center of this Gaussian anywhere you like.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
You learned how to use meshes in computer graphics as coordinate systems for mapping onto functions
and you also learn the formula for a two dimensional Gaussian which is sometimes called a smoothing
kernel.
Now these meshes are going to turn out to be really important for all of the rest of the videos in this
section of the course.
So don't run away.
Don't go to sleep don't stop to take a nap or get dinner or anything else just keep on watching to the
next video.
It's going to be super exciting.